# negative-rebound-effect
Research with Prof. Mark Jacobsen at UCSD; Using DOT National House Survey to advise EPA on fuel emissions policy

In 2018, the Trump Administration rolled back fuel economy standards against great controversy, citing larger influence of the “rebound effect” than previously estimated. The “rebound effect” is the increase in driving when cost per mile of driving is lowered. The goal of this research was to refute the rebound effect estimates. My professor’s research collaborated with the US EPA to tighten fuel economy standards by suggesting it would decrease household vehicle size, and thereby decrease vehicle miles traveled (VMT), a negative rebound. I led analysis on the National Household Travel Surveys (NHTS) collected by the Department of Transportation to develop empirical evidence. My specific goal was to prove that decreasing the number of vehicles per household will also decrease the overall vehicle miles traveled (VMT) by the household. I do this by constructing the control household: household size, work status, student status, income, geographic density, number of children, etc. Then I use the control household to understand how their vehicle miles traveled (VMT) changes as their household car composition changes. Specifically, I dive into trip purpose distributions, vehicle types, and calculating variable (non-work)  VMT. I proved that VMT decreases as household car size decreases, identified relationships between VMT and car type and age combinations, and distributions between trip type and car types. 


